A case of the first relationship we're going to look at is a one to one relationship and this is actually
the least common type of relationship that you'll see in a database.
So what is one to one relationship is where a key to one table appears no more than once as the key
in another table and vice versa.
So what does that actually mean.
Well if you think about our school database where we had student tables and teachers tables where you
could have a department table and you could have a head of department table and for each department
you can only have one head of department and the head of a department can only be the head of one department.
So these two tables would have a one to one relationship one department one head of department and the
head of the department cannot be the head of another department of more than one department.
So that would be an example of a one to one relationship.
And if we think about our coffee store database we had our products table.
So we had filled espresso cappuccino cetera but we could have also created a second table or we could
have created a product details table and this would include all the data about that product.
So maybe it would have included the price and the coffee origin.
And these two tables would have had a one to one relationship.
So one entry in the products table would have one entry in the product details table and one row in
the products Details table could only relate to one product in the products table.
So this would be another example of a one to one relationship and if you are creating a database schema
you can present a one to one relationship between two tables using these lines.
So we have a line between the two tables and then we have two vertical lines on each side and then we
have the numbers one and numbers 0 to 1.
So this means one entry in the products table would have zero to a maximum of one entry in the products
details table.
So this is what we mean by a one to one relationship.
But like I said these are the least common types of relationships you'll see in a database.